# Testnet
[Starknet-devnet](https://github.com/Shard-Labs/starknet-devnet) is a Flask wrapper of Starknet state. Similar in purpose to Ganache.
Aims to mimic Starknet's Alpha testnet, but with simplified functionality.

[Nile](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/nile) is a Manager developed by OpenZeppelin for your Cairo projects. If you are a Python Developer, this is your tool.

If you want to test a Cairo project:
```bash
# mkdir nile-test
# cd nile-test
# python3.9 -m venv env
# source env/bin/activate
(env) # pip3 install starknet-devnet
(env) # pip3 install cairo-nile
(env) # nile init
(env) # mv contracts/contract.cairo contracts/contract1.cairo
```

Start your devnet in a different terminal
```
# source env/bin/activate
(env) # nile node
```

Now you have a Starknet node running in the background and a few private keys loaded with devnet tokens.

Note : This command creates the project directory structure and installs cairo-lang, starknet-devnet, pytest, and pytest-asyncio for you. The template includes a makefile to build the project (make build) and run tests (make test).

In contracts you have contract.cairo with a basic Cairo contract with two functions : increase_balance and get_balance. Let's deploy and test. The name of the contract is contract, but we need an alias for it: stark1

```bash
(env) # nile compile
(env) # nile deploy contract1 --alias stark1
```

You get the transaction Hash, and the info on the deployed contracts gets saved to localhost.deployments.txt (address:abiFile:alias).

Ready to play!
```bash
nile call stark1 get_balance
```

Congrats, you just did your first interaction with a Starknet contract :)

In order to write to any Smart Contract we need an Account, and it does not work like any other EVM Blockchain.

## Introduction to accounts
In Cairo there are no Externally Owned Accounts (EOA), they deploy a Smart Contract representing an account with its own logic: The signature scheme that controls who can issue transactions from it)
A bit more complex but by far more powerful to have full control of addresses: delegation, recovery, blocking...

Will go deeper into Accounts here, but for now, you can test accounts also with Nile.

Firs create you need to create a .env file in the root of your cairo-test directory. You can use one of the private Keys provided by your devnet (nile node).
```bash
(env) # echo "PKEY=0xcd978ef14f70de2242c40fdfce5947e6" >> .env
(env) # nile setup PKEY
```

The Addres of stark1 can be found in localhost.deployments.txt and also the address and the alias of your new Account (account-0).

## Intarcting with your contract

Now you are ready to send a transaction to the contract stark1 from your new Account

```bash
(env) # nile send PKEY stark1 increase_balance 20
Calling increase_balance on stark1 with params: ['20']
Invoke transaction was sent.
(env) # nile call stark1 get_balance
20


## Resources
- [Starknet-devnet](https://shard-labs.github.io/starknet-devnet/docs/intro)
- [Nile github](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/nile)
- [Getting started with StarkNet using Nile (for beginners)](https://medium.com/coinmonks/starknet-tutorial-for-beginners-using-nile-6af9c2270c15)
- [Manage your StarkNet deployments with Nile](https://medium.com/@martriay/manage-your-starknet-deployments-with-nile-%EF%B8%8F-e849d40546dd)

