# Testnet
[Starknet-devnet](https://github.com/Shard-Labs/starknet-devnet) is a Flask wrapper of Starknet state. Similar in purpose to Ganache.
Aims to mimic Starknet's Alpha testnet, but with simplified functionality.

[Nile](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/nile) is a Manager developed by OpenZeppelin for your Cairo projects. If you are a Python Developer, this is your tool.

If you want to test a Cairo project:
```bash
pip install starknet-devnet
pip install cairo-nile
nile init
nile node &
```

Now you have a Starknet node running in the background

Note : This command creates the project directory structure and installs cairo-lang, starknet-devnet, pytest, and pytest-asyncio for you. The template includes a makefile to build the project (make build) and run tests (make test).

In contracts you have contract.cairo with a basic Cairo contract with two functions : increase_balance and get_balance. Let's deploy and test. The name of the contract is contract, but we need an alias for it: my_contract

```bash
nile compile
nile deploy contract --alias my_contract
```

You get the transaction Hash, and the info on the deployed contracts gets saved to localhost.deployments.txt (address:abiFile:alias).

Ready to play!
```bash
nile call my_contract get_balance
nile invoke my_contract increase_balance 10
nile call my_contract get_balance
```

Congrats, you just did your first interaction with a Starknet contract :)

## Introduction to accounts
In Cairo there are no Externally Owned Accounts (EOA), they deploy a Smart Contract representing an account with its own logic: The signature scheme that controls who can issue transactions from it)
A bit more complex but by far more powerful to have full control of addresses: delegation, recovery, blocking...

Will go deeper into Accounts here, but for now, you can test accounts also with Nile:
```bash
PKEY=1234 nile setup PKEY
```

The Addres of my_contract can be found in localhost.deployments.txt. Also the alias of the Account (account-0).

## Resources
- [Starknet-devnet](https://github.com/Shard-Labs/starknet-devnet)
- [Nile github](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/nile)
- [Getting started with StarkNet using Nile (for beginners)](https://medium.com/coinmonks/starknet-tutorial-for-beginners-using-nile-6af9c2270c15)
- [Manage your StarkNet deployments with Nile](https://medium.com/@martriay/manage-your-starknet-deployments-with-nile-%EF%B8%8F-e849d40546dd)

